Let's talk about product market fit. You
have to deliberately not act on the
feedback of many of your early users.
And this is at the same time as
listening to people intensely and
building what people want. That's what
we're here to do is to make something
that people want. But it can't be all
people. And the question becomes, how do
you listen to them? And then even of
what they say, what do you pay attention
to and what don't you? The trick here is
you're not doing what a lot of CEOs
think they need to be doing with their
time. A lot of cos think they need to
spend time on hiring or or building and
you intentionally I will spend time on
product and marketing design. So this is
a technique that I call the switch log
and it's born out of the observation
that your calendar says what you thought
you were going to do but it's really
only your trail of work that describes
what you actually did. How can we
capture that? So I came up with the
following idea. What if I just did
whatever the heck I wanted? What's the
most pivotal moment in your career in
your life? I learned the real secret
behind verality. There is no such thing
as a truly viral product. What then is
the true secret? It
is. Today my guest is Rahul Vora. Rahul
is the founder and CEO of Superhum and
one of the most thoughtful and
insightful and articulate founders that
I've met. As you'll see in our
conversation, it's hard not to be
captivated by Rahul's storytelling
skills and also his really insightful
takes on how to build great products and
teams. This episode is for anyone who's
looking to build their product taste,
help their teams move faster, learn how
to think better from first principles,
and also learn about Superhumans's very
unique approach to building their
company, including why they manually
onboarded every single new user for
years and why they decided to stop. why
they ignored most of their customer
feedback on their way to finding product
market fit and also how you can use his
approach to finding product market fit
for your own company. Also, the power of
game design in building great products,
a very contrarian take on pricing
strategy, what Rahul has learned about
building scaled products on top of AI
and LLMs, and so much more. A huge thank
you to Ed Sims, Conrad Irwin, Bel
Trenchard, and Garavora for suggesting
questions and topics for this
conversation. If you enjoy this podcast,
don't forget to subscribe and follow it
in your favorite podcasting app or
YouTube. Also, if you become a yearly
subscriber of my newsletter, you get a
year free of Superhum that you can start
using immediately. You also get a year
free of Notion, Perplexity Pro, Granola,
and Linear. Check it out at
lennisnewsletter.com. With that, I bring
you Rahul
Vora. This episode is brought to you by
EPO. EPO is a next generation AB testing
and feature management platform built by
alums of Airbnb and Snowflake for modern
growth teams. Companies like Twitch,
Miro, ClickUp, and DraftKings rely on
EPO to power their experiments.
Experimentation is increasingly
essential for driving growth and for
understanding the performance of new
features. And EPO helps you increase
experimentation velocity while unlocking
rigorous deep analysis in a way that no
other commercial tool does. When I was
at Airbnb, one of the things that I
loved most was our experimentation
platform where I could set up
experiments easily, troubleshoot issues,
and analyze performance all on my own.
EPO does all that and more with advanced
statistical methods that can help you
shave weeks off experiment time and
accessible UI for diving deeper into
performance and out-of-the-box reporting
that helps you avoid annoying prolonged
analytic cycles. EPO also makes it easy
for you to share experiment insights
with your team, sparking new ideas for
the AB testing flywheel. EPO powers
experimentation across every use case,
including product growth, machine
learning, monetization, and email
marketing. Check out EPO at
getepo.com/lenny and 10x your experiment
velocity. That's get
epo.com/lenny. This episode is brought
to you by the Fundrise flagship fund.
Full disclosure, real estate investing
is boring. Prediction markets are
exciting. Memecoins are a thrill ride.
Even the stock market can swing wildly
on a headline. Hello, Deepseek. But with
real estate investing, there's no drama
or adrenaline or excuses to refresh your
portfolio every few minutes. Just bland
and boring stuff like diversification
and dividends. So, you won't be
surprised to learn that the Fundrise
Flagship Real Estate Fund is a complete
snoozefest. The fund holds $1.1 billion
worth of institutional caliber real
estate managed by a team of pros focused
on steadily growing your net worth for
decades to come. See, boring. That's the
point. You can start investing in
minutes and with as little as $10 by
visiting
fundrise.com/lenny. Carefully consider
the investment objectives, risks,
charges, and expenses of the Fundrise
Black Fund before investing. Find this
information and more in the funds
perspectus at
fundrise.com/flagship. This is a paid
ad. Rahul, thank you so much for being
here. Welcome to the podcast. Hello.
Hello. And thank you for having me,
Lenny. I have so many questions for you.
We're going to have so much to talk
about. I actually want to start with
your time before Superhum. When I was
preparing for this chat, I actually
asked you what what's the most pivotal
moment in your career in your life and
you told me that other than starting
superhuman, it was selling your previous
company reportive to LinkedIn. So let me
just start there. What was that
experience like? What do people not know
about this phase in your life and just
why was it so pivotal? So for folks that
don't know, Reportive was my last
company. It was the first Gmail
extension to scale to millions of users.
Basically, on the right hand side of
Gmail, we would show you what people
look like, where they work, links to
their recent tweets, their LinkedIn
profile, and everything else that they
were doing online. So, if you were
hiring, marketing, selling in BD, super
useful. It turns out we somehow
attracted most of LinkedIn's daily
active users onto this one free app, and
I then ultimately ended up selling that
to LinkedIn. And that by far, as you
said, was the most pivotal thing I'd
done in my career prior to starting
Superhuman. Now, had I known that we'd
amassed most of LinkedIn's active users
onto one app, I would have sold it for
far more. But the actual pivotal moment
was really who I got to work with
because I reported to LinkedIn's head of
growth, Elliot Schmukler, and he was
responsible for scaling LinkedIn from 25
million members to when I joined north
of 250 million members. And during my
first one, I learned the real secret
behind Verality. And big hint, it's not
about viral mechanics. And overall, that
acquisition experience gave me the the
time to figure out what was next and the
resources to truly swing from the
fences. Uh, okay. Well, I have to follow
this threat that you put out there of
what the secret is to verity. What What
did you learn there? Well, in my first
oneonone, I sat down with Elliot and I
said, "Hey, I'm here to learn. Please
teach me everything that you know about
verality." and he said, "Okay, well,
hate to burst your bubble, but there is
no such thing as a truly viral product."
I said, "What do you mean? How do you
explain Facebook for that matter? How do
you explain LinkedIn?" And he said,
"What I mean
is no app has sustained a viral factor
of greater than one for any real period
of time.
Even Facebook in its heyday had a viral
factor of about 0.7. And he told me that
lasted for perhaps a year. So one person
was creating about 0.7 new users. And I
double clicked again and I said, "Well,
Elliot, what about the address book
import? This is one of the things that
LinkedIn got famous or infamous for. You
could import your address book and then
it would spam slashinvite everyone who
happens to be members of LinkedIn in
your address book and then eventually it
would just invite everyone to LinkedIn.
And he said that's an amazing feature
but you have to remember not everyone is
going to use it all the time. So even
that feature had a lifetime viral factor
of about
0.4 and that's considered good. So 0.4
is good for a viral feature. 0.6 is
great. Something like 0.6 seven is
absolutely incredible. You're in the
stratosphere up with Facebook at that
tide. So I said, well, okay, all of
these things by definition are going to
peter out. There's going to be an
asmtote. None of these viral mechanics
keep on compounding, which which
actually makes sense. It would be a
little absurd if things just kept on
growing. What then is the true secret
behind verality? And he said, it is word
of mouth. It is the verality you can't
measure that isn't a mechanic that isn't
in a feature. It is when one user
spontaneously tells another user about
your product. And that really colored
how I think about growth and verality
since then. It has shaped so much of
what we do at Superhum and so much of
how I think about growing brands. Wow.
My You're such a great storyteller. I'm
just like listening here captivated.
What is he going to say next? That was
that was fascinating. I actually have a
post that I'm going to link to that very
much aligns with what you're talking
about which is titled Verality is a myth
mostly and it's based I forget on this
book where they do all this research on
like actual viruses and it turns out
they're not actually spreading in this
like exponential way. is like one person
that spreads it to a lot of people and
it keeps happening. And that's actually
uh apparently what the data shows and
I'm curious if you found this same thing
which is when people think of app as
going viral, it's like one person with a
massive platform sharing it and their
audience adopts it and it's like that's
just one to many and then it just
happens a couple times and it looks like
it's going viral but it's like a person
to many people, not many people to many
people. Thoughts on that? Yeah, we've
definitely found that there are whales
to use the gaming terminology that one
person is going to be responsible for
inviting 25, 50, 100 people and they may
have various motivations for doing that.
In superhuman, as an individual
subscriber, if you refer somebody else
and they sign up, you both get a free
month, which is a great incentive if
you're paying out of pocket. So we have
people who send many many hundreds of
invites and there are some people who
essentially have free superhuman for
life now due to how many people they've
invited. But of course that incentive
doesn't necessarily work inside of a
company or inside of a team where
ultimately it's the company paying for
the product. So you have to then come up
with new motivations for those people
and that's where there really isn't any
substitute to having a genuinely
multiplayer or a genuinely collaborative
product. That's one of the huge
evolutions we've taken superhuman
through over the last probably about 2
years. Early last year we launched what
we call superhum
2.0. And the basic idea is we saw almost
every single other app of note become
collaborative by default. Figma, notion,
Loom, these are all multiplayer or
collaborative by default. Yet, email,
the one tool that we all use more than
anything else, even more than things
like Slack, was still firmly stuck in
its single player origins. I want to
come back to something that you
mentioned that I kind of deflect I kind
of didn't come back to I think is really
core to what you just shared, which is
word of mouth being so important. Like
people talk about all these viral
features and sharing and contact books
and all these things. And your point is
that takes you to a place, but really
what helps a consumerish product spread
is uh is word of mouth, people sharing
with each other, which then the question
is how do you do that? We're going to
talk about a lot of things that you did
to make superhuman something people want
to share, but in the end it's just like
making something people want to share.
That's like the definition almost. So
then it's like what makes people want to
share stuff? It's amazing. to helping
them something that is remarkable. Well,
it turns out you mentioned
remarkableness. That is one of our core
company values. And if you think about
what a company has to do, it has to
grow. How do things grow? Well, let's
take Elliot's advice at face value. And
I believe it's true. It's creating
something that people
share. You mentioned one way of doing
it, which is something that people want
to share. There's actually another way
which is simply creating something
remarkable. You use that word and that
is one of the core values of superhuman.
So it we have create delight. Create
something that is so joyful that it
really truly brings people delight. We
have deliver remarkable quality,
something that is so striking, so
compelling and worthy of attention that
people can't but help tell others about
it. And then we have build the
extraordinary which is a measure of the
sort of efficacy or the innoviveness of
of what we want to build. So that's
another trick which is literally baking
these raw ingredients for growth into
your company values. I I didn't know
that was one of your values. Uh that
makes so much sense. Okay. Uh we're
going to come back to that because I
think that is there's so much to learn
about how you think about product and
how you think about building the company
that builds the product. But I want to
actually start here with how this
conversation came to be.
So, the CEO of Product Hunt, Rajie,
tweeted months ago. He tweeted uh this
and we're going to show this if you're
on YouTube. Superhumans product velocity
feels like it's kicked into another gear
as of late. Does anyone else notice
this? And I saw that I'm like, I
completely have noticed this. Feels like
there's just feature shipping left and
right. AI this, AI that. Uh feels like
you're just like a new company. And I
tagged you on the tweet. I'm like, hey,
Rahul, what changed? and you answered
with a few things and it just made it
clear there's some a lot to learn about
what you did because a lot of companies
are in this phase I think of just like
things aren't moving as fast as we want.
We used to be so much faster. We used to
ship all these features and now we
don't. And so I think this is a really
cool real case study illustrative
example uh that we can analyze. So let
me ask you this. What did you notice
that told you something needed to change
at superhuman? And then what did you
change that actually had the most impact
on your ability to ship and and move
faster? I think what we noticed
was this sentiment and we felt it first
ourselves but we also started hearing it
from the market from our users from our
customers that we'd slowed down. And as
a founder as a CEO that's the absolute
last thing you want to hear. It's our
job after all to speed things up. And
when I asked people what do they mean by
slowing down, they didn't mean the
product, of course, the product wasn't
working any slower, but that the pace of
delivery seemed to have slowed down. So
I think to break this down, it's
important to start by defining what we
mean by a slowdown. There's the kind of
slowdown that is unavoidable in certain
spaces and then there is the kind of
slowdown that is quite avoidable. We
actually had both. So starting with
unavoidable slowdown, you can classify
anything that you build in a company
into one of two categories. Solution
deepening and market widening. Now
solution deepening means making your
product better for its existing users
but not making it available to more
users. Whereas market widening means
making your product available to more
users but not making the product itself
any better. And there are some spaces,
there are some markets, there are some
platforms where market widening is
really fast and really easy. And there
are some spaces, email is one of them,
where market widening is really hard and
really slow. And when we started, we had
a great deal of focus. We only supported
Gmail. We were only on the web. And in
those early years, we could pour every
ounce of R&D energy, every engineering
dollar into solution deepening, making
the product better for existing users.
And of course users loved it. It's how
we got to product market fit. It's how
most startups do. But at a certain
point, almost every company then has to
start investing in widening the market.
For example, the market of people who
will use a new Gmail front end, but
without a mobile app does exist, but it
is relatively small. And and this is
something that every new email startup
is going to learn sooner or later. In
order to keep on growing, you are going
to have to need to add an iOS app and
then a Mac OS app and then a Windows app
and then an Android app and then you'll
soon want to support Office 365. But
that's not one thing. That's actually
three things because you have to support
Office 365 on desktop and then on iOS
and then on Android. And that's all much
easier said than done. I think we at
Superhum now know things about these
APIs that literally no other company
knows. And I would not wish it upon my
worst enemy. So fast forward to today
and superhuman now works wherever you do
on every combination of Gmail, Outlook,
Mac, Windows web, iOS, Android. And this
actually turns out to be a really great
technology moat. Almost no other email
app can claim this. It's taken many
years of intense investment. And I think
we'll touch on this later, but it's one
of the main reasons why we can sell into
the enterprise because we now know
everyone can use it. But this is the
hard part. When you're when you're doing
that market widening, you're not
solution deepening. And so your
perceived product velocity may decrease.
You can avoid some of these things with
some smart technology decisions, but
mostly you just have to grind through it
and it is worth it to get to the other
side. Then there's the kind of slowdown
that is avoidable and if I remember my
answer to Rajie's tweet, that was the
kind I was talking about and in that
case it was our management structure or
who does what. When we hired our initial
executive teams, I followed very
conventional wisdom. I ended up with a a
set of VPs and eight, I think, direct
reports, maybe even nine. And I thought
that's what you were meant to do. That's
how startups are meant to scale. But as
anyone who's been there knows, eight
direct reports is a lot. It's a lot of
hiring. It's a lot of goal setting. It's
a lot of OKRs. It's a lot of
accountability conversations. And
fortunately, also, it's a lot of firing.
No CEO ever gets their executive team
right on the first try. So that time I
had for the things that I think I can
genuinely be world class at, things like
product and design and technology and
marketing, that all began to rapidly
disappear. And as a result, the
organization began to slow down.
Unfortunately, I was also tracking my
time very closely. I had this crazy way
of tracking it. And at one point I
noticed I was spending six to 7% of my
week on these areas, these areas where I
can truly be world class at. So I had
two realizations. Number one, as CEO,
once you get to a certain scale, and and
we were definitely at that scale, you
can actually define what you want the
role of the CEO to be at your company.
And number two, the superhuman
opportunity deserves everyone who works
at the company to spend as much time as
possible in their zone of genius. And so
that includes me as well as everybody
else. So what I did is I hired a really
great president. I went from eight
direct reports to two. And the amount of
time that I spend on product design,
technology, and marketing went up from 6
to 7% to about 60 to 70% of my week.
Just to mirror back a few things. One is
people may feel like you are not
shipping as much as you used to because
you're actually building things they
don't care about which is support for
office and uh all these things that they
don't need but the business needs to
expand integrations with Microsoft and
Android and all these things. I think
that's such a good point that like it
looks like nothing's happening when
there's a lot of good stuff happening
for other users that aren't you. And
then there's this point about people
delegate and then they real like a
leader delegates hires all these execs
and then like this is not what I wanted.
Why have I done this? And things and you
think it's going to speed up but it
slows down. A couple threads here that
are really interesting. One is this time
tracking thing. I I need to know what
how do you do this? This is the fact
that you knew like 7 to 8% or whatever
the number he said like to that
granularity of your time you're spending
on uh things you wanted was that low.
How how do you do time tracking? Let's
not go super far, but just what's your
what's your approach? So, this is a
technique that I call the switch log.
And it's born out of the observation
that your calendar says what you thought
you were going to do, but it's really
only your trail of work that describes
what you actually did. So, how can we
capture that? And actually, how can
create a system of work that isn't
tethered to a calendar where you aren't
at the behest of what some timetable
says you do or you don't have to do? So,
I came up with the following idea. What
if I just did whatever the heck I
wanted? What if every single time I
changed task, I just Slack DM'd my EA?
But this also works in Slackbot. Like
you can just just has to go somewhere. I
Slackdm my EA and I said TS colon and
then a few words for the task I was
doing. Well, that would create certain
changes instead of having to constantly
look at the calendar and think, oh, um,
should I stop this task, start that
task? I can just do what I want. Like if
if what I feel right now is, oh boy, I
really need to prepare for Lenny's
podcast, I'll go ahead and do that. And
if I get bored or distracted 8 minutes
in, which sometimes happens because
something else just bubbles up to the
top of my mind, well, there's a reason
that my body is bubbling it up to the
top of my mind. I also practice
transcendental meditation. So, I'm very
uh keen on the idea of being aware and
listening to what's bubbling up. And so
it's okay for me to then go and attend
to that thought as opposed to start to
expend my focus points or my discipline
or willpower on the thing that I thought
I was meant to be doing. All I'd have to
do is I'd go back to Slack TS colon
dealing with this other thing. And um
and by the way, you should obviously
turn up for your meetings. I'm not
saying just like blow through your
meetings and and not turn up for your
one-on- ones. Definitely do those
things. What I'm saying is do what feels
right for as long as as it feels right
to do. Then at the end of the week you
can see where your time is going. And I
realized at one point that I I was
spending only in those days like 5% of
my time on recruiting whereas perhaps I
should be spending 20 or 30% or more of
my time on recruiting. But the biggest
thing was I saw I was only spending 6 to
7% of my time on product on design on
technology and marketing. And these are
things where I know I'm really good at
them. I should either be teaching people
how to do them or doing them or or some
combination of both. That's probably the
best thing for me. It keeps me really
happy, very joyful, keeps me sharp, but
it's also scaling the organization. And
so that's how we had that kind of an
insight. Once you have this Slack log,
you can then graph it and chart it and
see where your time is actually going.
How cool. Clearly, this is an app
opportunity or like an agent opportunity
where you're just uh telling this thing
every time. It's essentially tracking
context switches, which we're always
hearing try not to avoid context
switches. Yeah, I I think context
switches are fine. I mean, there's
definitely this idea that for every
interruption you have, the brain does
take roughly 21 minutes on average to
recover, to get back to the efficacy
before that you were disturbed. And it's
a big deal. Of course, I'm I'm building
productivity software. We designed
superhuman to minimize the amount of
distraction and disruption that's
possible within the app. But if you're
working on something and at the back of
your mind something bubbles up, you have
to attend to it in one way or the other.
Sometimes I just write it down and I
have a a actually I don't have my
notebook with me, but it's really big. I
have like a gigantic whatever twice the
size of A4 is I guess A3 uh sketchbook
and I always have a 4 pencil. So
whenever one of those thoughts comes up,
I I just scribble it down or I actually
stop what I'm doing and I attend to that
task because there's a reason it's
bubbling up right now. I love that you
know exactly the type of paper and
pencil 4 pencil A3 paper very very Okay,
this is going to be a theme. You
mentioned meditation. You said you do
TM. So you you do 20 minutes in the
morning, 20 minutes. Do you do it that
style or you do a longer session? I do
about half an hour in the morning
including rest time. The physical rest
component of it is very important to me.
So, it's 20 minutes of the actual
meditation, then 10 minutes of rest, and
I do that in the morning as well as in
the afternoon at around 3 p.m. And you
just carve that out on your calendar.
You know, everyone knows Raul at 3:00
he's going to be out. Absolutely. And my
EA knows they are the one who's
organizing the calendar and making sure
things happen when they need to happen.
They also know that nothing can override
this TM block. Without it, I genuinely
start to fall apart. But with it, I'm
able to access some some very deep
competencies that I didn't have before.
I've been doing this now for about four
or five years. And initially, I simply
felt happier, occasionally even more
euphoric coming out of a really great
meditation session. But over time, I
found that my ability to focus was
increasing. I could hold attention on
something for much longer. But I also
was able to become much more creative
and much more expressive. uh the these
are well-known side effects as it were
or intended effects for some people of
TM and interestingly about TM if you
compare it to other forms of meditation
they don't have quite the same impact
across quite as many executive functions
so there's something particularly
interesting that's going on with
transcendental meditation as opposed to
other forms uh that folks are still
trying to unravel and figure out folks
want to if they're inspired and know
they want to check out this form of
meditation any advice on where they
could go
Absolutely. Um, a lot. But in summary,
have a coach teach you. I had many false
starts myself with meditation, trying
the various apps, learning from books.
None of it really worked for me. What
worked was having one- on-one teaching
from someone themselves who had been
taught one-on-one, the the yogic or the
Raj tradition of teaching. And this
person in particular had also been a
venture-backed founder multiple times
over. And so they're very well aware of
the kinds of stresses that I tend to be
under. And all of his clients are mostly
in technology as well. Uh if you're in
the Bay Area, this person's name is
Laurent Valisk and they run an
institution called the Peak Leadership
Institute. And this is all about how we
can live a more integrated and whole
life, integrating wellness practices
like meditation, but for the purpose of
unlocking peak performance in life and
in business. Thank you for sharing that.
That is very actionable. We're going to
link to that in the in the show notes.
Okay, I'm going to try to bring us back
on course. The other thing you mentioned
that I think is really interesting is
hiring a president. A lot of founders
and leaders might be hearing this and be
like going from eight reports and doing
all these things they don't want to
spending most of my time on the product
and design and marketing. Amazing. What
did this president take off your plate
and what is their responsibility and
that allowed you to do the stuff you
wanted to do? The biggest thing was
taking off
the operations and the management of the
executive team and the rest of the
company. So, think of the president role
in superhuman
as an operationally extremely
challenging and a very growthful role.
Like it is it's perfect for someone who
wants to go on to be a a CEO in their
next role. uh and instead
of hiring and firing that team, instead
of managing and setting their goals,
instead of the accountability
conversations, someone else is now doing
that. In addition, because that's not
the only job. In addition, they're also
a very strong thought partner when it
comes to corporate strategy, when it
comes to where do we take act one, our
email product? How far do we go down the
multiplayer path? Uh how aggressively
should we lean into AI? What's a
reasonable gross margin in a world with
AI? Are we from a financial perspective
okay dipping now and then coming back
later? When should we start building our
second product? How do we think about
our R&D strategy? Should we keep on
hiring in the Bay Area or as we've done
for many of our recent hires, should we
continue hiring in Latin America? Should
we consider other time zones as well?
And so on and so on and so on. I mean,
I'm just randomly coming up with
questions, but that the list is truly
endless. It
is another way to think about it is it's
like a it's almost like a grownup
co-founder. the two people I co-founded
the company with, Comrade and VC, uh
they've long since gone from superhuman.
We're now a 10-year-old organization and
I'm one of those rare founders that is
uh persisting and thriving actually 10
years in. That said, the journey never
gets easier. it gets different and you
still need that co-founding energy
around you and I have a handful of
people in the organization who are in
their roles providing that kind of
energy that kind of input and and who
thrive off doing so and the president
role is definitely one of them.
Incredibly interesting. There's so many
so much there. Uh one just a couple
things I'll share and then I want to
move on to a different topic. One is
just it's cool. The solution to helping
you move faster and do the work you want
to do is org design. That feels like a
really doable
uh thing. If you're finding you're not
spending time on things you want to
spend on time on and things aren't
moving as fast as you want. It's
essentially you can find people to take
on things that you don't want and shift
the way that the or is structured and
that could solve a lot of problems.
That's what it did for you. And then I
think it's also really interesting
there's this lesson here of as a founder
if you're just feeling like I don't know
depleted or just like not don't have the
partner you want you could bring someone
on that could be that person.
Absolutely. Y okay there's so much there
that was much more of a rich area than I
even expected. I want to zoom out a
little bit and there's a couple themes
that came up again and again when I
talked to folks that you've worked with
investors and superhuman and the two
themes are uh contrarian thinking in
terms of building the company and strong
attention to detail. Let's spend a
little time on attention to detail. And
like I said, this is one of the things
that came up again and again when I was
asking people about you. So, I have this
uh quote from Ed Sims. Maybe your first
investor. Were they your first investor?
Yeah, that there's a bunch of people on
Twitter are going to fight for that. But
to set the record straight, Edim did
actually write the first three checks
into Superhuman. First three checks like
subsequent rounds. Well, yeah. I mean,
quick sidebar on that. He he runs Bold
Start Ventures alongside his partner
Elliot Durban and they have a particular
interest in backing second time
founders, but they'll also back
first-time founders and they love
application and infrastructure areas
like superhumans. So, we were like the
perfect investment. He also wrote a
check from his previous fund into
reportive and I I think I'd made him
like 5x that money. nothing to write
home about, but definitely I'm going to
back this guy again. Right? And so I
went to him and I said, "Hey, listen."
And this is going to sound crazy. I want
to take on Gmail. He said, "Do you have
a deck?" I was like, "Yeah, here it is.
One slide. Here it is." And there was a
screenshot of Gmail with most of it
scribbled out. I want to build that and
it's going to be amazing. Uh, so he
said, "Cool. We're in. Um, can I wire
you the money?" And I said, "No, I don't
even have a bank account yet." I come
back two days later with a bank account.
And he was like, "Cool. Uh, I want to
wire you 750K. And I said, I don't even
know what I'm going to do with that
money. I'm not paying myself. I won't
for a while. We don't have any
employees. I can't think of anything I
want to spend it on. Tell you what, I'll
just take
250K. And he was like, what? Yeah, I'll
250K. We start having the conversation
around venture economics. I'm like,
yeah, you know, it's fine. We we'll
figure it out. And then a few months
back, I took another 250K. And a few
months back, I took another 250K. as I
began inventing ways and finding
channels to deploy capital properly. I
love the story. I love all these stories
you're sharing I've never heard before.
Uh and by the way, Ed is awesome. We're
talking about him coming on the podcast,
maybe breaking RVC rule. Uh so
specifically the story he shared with me
that is maybe an example of you in your
attention to detail is he said that you
created your own font because existing
fonts weren't good enough. Is that true?
Kind of. Okay. The font that we use
today is a modified version of Adele
Sands. And the story there is I looked
at all of the major font families and
honestly none of them was what I would
call truly excellent. And that may sound
like an odd thing to say. So let's if
you will permit me to talk about
typography and email for a minute. So,
the first thing we did was we took our
UI and we laid it out uh in about 15
different styles using examples of the
major font families. We actually printed
these out and we left them on a desk in
the middle of our office. Sometimes with
design, you want to tune in to your
immediate most visceral response, but
sometimes you want to truly let a design
marinate. And this was the latter. So,
we let these designs marinate. We let
these font choices percolate. And like I
said, none of them was truly excellent.
Number one, I was looking for a font
that was in and of itself gorgeous.
Number two, I was looking for a font
that could also convey a message of any
kind without overpowering the sentiment
of that message. For example, does the
font work when this is inviting you to a
party? Many fonts, including almost all
serif fonts, are actually too somber or
too sober for that. Or to pick another
extreme, does the font work if it is
informing you of somebody's passing?
Many fonts are just too jaunty for that.
You wouldn't want that kind of message
in comic sands, for example. And number
three, I was optimizing for a font that
made reading speed and comprehension
really fast. And number four, I was
looking for a font that made email
addresses themselves look great. So I
discarded all the 15 because they
weren't good enough. And after searching
high and low, I came across a font
called Adele Sands, which is designed by
a foundry called type together. It's
typy together.com. They have a whole
bunch of lovely fonts. Go check them
out. And if you go through my list,
number one, Adel Sands is gorgeous. I
think each character is a work of art.
It's beautifully formed. Number two,
Adel Sands is, I would say, upbeat. It's
optimistic, yet it's serious enough to
convey any kind of message. It has just
the right amount of personality, yet not
too much personality. Number three, Adel
Sounds is also unusually narrow, and
that actually fits email particularly
well. One of my pet peeves with Gmail,
which by default uses Ariel, is that the
lines are as wide as your window. So if
you're in a wide screen, then the lines
get really arbitrarily long. And the
problem with really wide and really long
lines is that they decrease reading
speed because by the time you've reached
the end of one line, your eyes have lost
track of the start of the next line. And
Ariel itself has fairly wide characters
which further exacerbates that. So at
superhuman we if you've used the product
you know this we fix the line length or
the typographical measure to the optimal
length for reading speed which depending
on the font is around 90 to 120
characters and Adell sands is quite
narrow so it actually lets us do this on
quite small windows with fairly dense
line. So we get a lot of information on
fairly small windows without getting a
very long typographical measure
optimizing for reading speed and for
comprehension. And then number four,
finally, Adelfands has very unusual
treatment of the at symbol in an email
address. It actually puts the base of
the A in the at on the same baseline as
the rest of the text. So, for example,
if uh your name has an A, my name does
Rahul at Vora, three A's and or two A's
and an at, they're all actually on the
same baseline. It's a small thing, but
it makes the email addresses look
incredibly natural. If you look at that
and then you actually look at email
addresses laid out in other fonts, those
other fonts look really clunky and
awkward because the A is kind of shifted
around and it it just looks a bit silly
in my opinion. Now, Adele Sands isn't
perfect. So we then worked with a type
designer on some of the specific details
that there are some of the glyphs which
get a little pincory as it were and what
we used today is very close to retail at
delams and this was pre-launch or this
was after you'd already launched. We'd
probably had about 10 15 users at the
time. So I think that's pretty uh
contrarian uh unique to be uh this
focused on the font and the type face
before you even launched. this was like,
is this even going to be a thing? Will
anyone even care? And I think this says
a lot about the way you think about
product. Oh yeah, that I mean that
thought never crossed my mind. I I think
we'll probably come to it later. But the
idea that is this never going to be a
thing. I think that's a dangerous
thought. We we can't start thinking that
way because at what point do you stop
second guessing yourself? Interesting.
So you're like you were confident this
was going to work. So because I am so
confident it will work, I will make I
need to get this right. There's also
just, you know, this trap founders fall
into of just spending too much time
perfecting a thing that never works. And
there's always advice, launch early,
launch
often. Thoughts there just like how do
you find that balance? What's your
advice there? How much to spend time
ahead of launch really does depend on
the market and the structure, the nature
of your business model. For example,
let's say you're building a marketplace
in a green field opportunity. So imagine
Lyft or Uber in their
heyday and there's a strong network
effect because the more cars you have on
your platform, the shorter waiting times
are, therefore people are going to
preferentially use your app versus the
other person's app. That's when there's
no time to spare. That's when, you know,
you probably shouldn't even be sleeping.
You're going to hire the most aggressive
maniacal people possible. You're going
to work 120 hour weeks because every
marginal minute actually does matter.
Every marginal minute in the
market growing compounding is going to
make your next year even
better. That's actually not true of all
startups and it certainly isn't true of
something like Superhum. Yes, working
harder is always better and we work
tremendously hard at Superhum, but not
to the point where it made sense to
release something that didn't work. I'm
reminded of a story of a
founder that was in Y Combinator told me
about their demo day experience and they
used mailbox which some folks may
remember was also a startup and Dropbox
famously acquired them for about $und00
million and the reason that they were
well known apart from the acquisition is
they were the first to popularize swipe
to archive or swipe to markdown which of
course is now standard in in superhuman
than every other
app. So, this
founder was using Mailbox and was having
an amazing demo day. They're working the
room. They're meeting investors. They're
pitching their photography app in this
case. And he went home that night and
went to his laptop, fired up mailbox,
and sent off a bunch of follow-up
emails. He waited a day, didn't hear
back. He waited two days, didn't hear
back. On the third morning, he figured
something was up. So, he fired up Gmail,
went to his scent mail, and you guessed
it, there were no sent mails there. So,
something had broken with mailbox. So,
he's cursing to himself, trying to
remind himself everything's going to be
okay. Sent all the same emails from
Gmail manually, and they all came
through.
But then one of the investors said,
"Hey, by the way, you might want to
check your email client because I've
been getting some of your emails twice."
And now he goes back into his Gmail. He
sees that yes, actually the original
emails that were queued up in mailbox
have now indeed been sent. And some of
the investors, unfortunately, most of
the investors he actually pitched twice.
Now, is this the end of the world? No.
An investor can overlook that. Probably
a good thing that you're trying new
apps. But was it horrifying? And was it
ter like was it really scary?
Absolutely. And imagine this wasn't
investors. Imagine this was a customer,
someone who you were trying to convince
that to buy your thing and that you knew
what you were doing and you had
attention to detail and and you had
everything just buttoned up and under
control. Well, now you've lost face. Now
you look foolish. And that's why when
you have a missionritical product like
email where you are interfacing with
customers with candidates with investors
it turns out to really matter. Email is
mission critical. So it's not something
where you can simply launch with a
halfbaked product. This is such an
important nuance take on. There's always
this debate how much how much to focus
on craft and user experience how much to
focus on time to launch and get it out
and speed. And what I'm hearing here,
which I completely agree with, is it
depends on the market you're in and the
the criticality essentially of how of of
your product. So if it's email, it just
needs to work. You need to get that
right. You need to spend all the time.
You need to get that right. This reminds
me of uh something else that one of your
early investors shared with me, Bill
Trencher from First Round Capital. He
talked about how speed was the thing
that you just dialed up uh as a lever to
like 11. That's where you just we will
make this the focus. Speed, speed,
speed. And I think the maybe the lesson
there is just you pick the thing that
you think will most uh differentiate you
make you uh significantly better than
what's out there. So I guess just
thoughts on just how to decide how you
decided speed was the thing you were
going to obsess with and just I don't
know advice for folks that are trying to
decide where to dial up things to 11.
Bill is right and I agree with him. You
have to pick
something. Knowing what to pick is the
trick. And in the early days of
superhuman, I read a book on positioning
that really influenced my thinking. And
it is, I believe, called positioning the
battle for your mind. And it struck me
how the most well-known brands have
stood for one clear thing. Like they
have a clear position. And so in order
for superhuman to be memorable, I
believed that we needed to occupy a
clear position that was unique and which
was available and which reinforced our
product strategy. In the first year of
Superhum, therefore, I interviewed
hundreds of potential customers about
their experience with Gmail and with
Outlook. And predictably, almost
everybody said that email takes way too
much time. But interestingly, many
people also said that Gmail and Outlook
were way too slow. And that was how I
first thought that speed could be an
interesting position for us. I then
asked myself, is the position of speed
unique? and is it available? And the
answer was overwhelmingly yes because
almost no software was being sold or has
ever been sold on the value proposition
of speed. The last time I could remember
anyone trying to do this was when Google
launched Chrome and obviously that went
incredibly well for them. And you may
remember they had slow motion videos
where they were comparing Chrome render
web pages and showing that was faster
than an actual strike of lightning. No
one had done it since then. And I then
asked, well, does speed reinforce our
product strategy? And again, the answer
was overwhelmingly yes. I knew that our
competition was not going to be
startups. It was incumbents. And I also
knew that incumbents generally struggle
with speed because by definition they
have massive scale and usually
entrenched architecture. And then
finally I did what I call the cocktail
party test which is to look at cocktail
parties and to watch how people pitch
your product to other people. And in our
case the pitches were simple. People
would say dude you have to use it. It's
really fast. And that's it. That
was the pitch and that's how I knew that
speed would be a really great position
for us to start with. I'm excited to
chat with Christina Gilbert, the founder
of One Schkeema, one of our longtime
podcast sponsors. Hi, Christina. Yes,
thank you for having me on, Lenny. What
is the latest with One Schkeema? I know
you now work with some of my favorite
companies like Ramp, Vanta, Scale, and
Watershed. I heard that you just
launched a new product to help product
teams import CSVs from especially tricky
systems like ERPs. Yes. So, we just
launched one schema of file feeds which
allows you to build an integration with
any system in 15 minutes as long as you
can export a CSV to an SFTP folder. We
see our customers all the time getting
stuck with hacks and workarounds. And
the product teams that we work with
don't have to turn down prospects
because their systems are too hard to
integrate with. We allow our customers
to offer thousands of integrations
without involving their engineering team
at all. I can tell you that if my team
had to build integrations like this, how
nice would it be to be able to take this
off my road map and instead use
something like one schema and not just
to build it, but also to maintain it
forever. Absolutely, Lenny. We've heard
so many horror stories of multi-day
outages from even just a handful of bad
records. We are laser focused on
integration reliability to help teams
end all of those distractions that come
up with integrations. We have a built-in
validation layer that stops any bad data
from entering your system and one schema
will notify your team immediately of any
data that looks incorrect. I know that
importing incorrect data can cause all
kinds of pain for your customers and
quickly lose their trust. Christina,
thank you for joining us and if you want
to learn more, head on over to
onskema.co. That's schema.co.
The next area I want to spend time on
and I imagine will have much uh insight
is some of the contrarian ways you
approach building superhum that a lot of
companies never thought about doing that
you did that worked out for you. So the
first is manually onboarding every
single new
user. Sure startups have done this like
you know founders bring on some folks
and then like cool show it show it to
them and then they stop doing that and
then it's like self-service or sales
teams. uh how far did you scale this
manual onboarding uh phase of your of
your company? Like how many people did
you have onboarding people? How many
people did you manually onboard? Yeah.
So for folks that don't know in those
early days we insisted on onetoone
concagege on boarding and it was
absolutely the right thing to do. You
couldn't use superhuman unless you went
through the onboarding experience. And
now it's almost the reverse. Almost
every new superhuman customer goes
through self-service. The onboarding
experience is still there but again it
is absolutely the right thing to do. To
answer your question at peak we had
about 20 people doing manual onboarding.
Okay. So it's not that many people.
That's really interesting because I
always imagine it was like a massive
team but 20 people can do can handle a
lot is the takeaway there. What was the
scale I guess where you stopped manual
on boarding just for folks that are like
thinking about doing this and then when
to stop. So I think the reason to stop
is that there will always be certain
personality types who do not want to go
through a one-on-one on boarding and at
a certain point those people will become
very important and you will need to be
ready with a worldclass self-service
option. When we started building
self-service it seemed nearly
impossible. In fact, it was terrifying
because it's difficult to
overstate how much the entire DNA of the
company was built around this idea that
we would onboard users manually. And
after all, we did so much in our
one-to-one onboardings, and there's only
so much that software can do. Now, we
did, after a lot of grind and
persistence, eventually figure it out.
And we we have a worldclass self-service
experience today, but we did not at the
time. So the flip side is why would you
even do this to begin with? Uh well, we
found two things. Number one, the user
metrics are excellent for things like
engagement, retention, product market
fit score, MPS, verality. For all of
those metrics, I think you will
significantly beat your industry
benchmarks if you go to the effort of
one-on-one onboarding your early
customers. And it becomes so powerful to
have that early cohort of soup fans when
it comes to things like building a
brand. And if folks remember that
conversation from way up at the top,
what is it that creates true virality?
It's not viral mechanics. It's word of
mouth. It is brand that this is how you
can kickstart a brand. And number two,
in a world where you can easily and
quickly raise funding, like for example
the zero interest rate phenomenon era,
you can actually use dollars to avoid
building a first-time user experience
and all of the normal growth loops that
you would then have to build. You would
then instead focus all of your engineers
on finding product market fit or in
solution deepening or in market
widening, but not for example on a
first-time user experience. uh not for
example on activation because you have
humans doing activation for you and by
contrast I saw other companies often
competing spend almost half their
engineering dollars on those things on
self-service flows for products that
ultimately did not find products market
fit. So makes sense to do if you really
want to create that brand which I think
all consumerish companies need to do and
if there is a you know there is money
falling off trees for whatever reason
which we did have for a period of time
arguably AI companies have that again
today. So if you can weave this into
your strategy I think you should but you
should also know when to stop. Super
interesting. So I guess some factors to
think about because I wanted to ask you
when should people consider doing this
if they're hearing this they're like
this is awesome so many problems solved
if I just have somebody onboarding every
new user everyone's activated amazing uh
so some of the variables you're sharing
is uh do you have like cheap cash to
invest in say like it doesn't have to be
20 people could be a few people to start
and then if there's like an LTV kind of
ACV element of just like are you going
to make enough for a new customer I
imagine that's a variable. Is is there
anything else you think founders should
think about? Absolutely. You don't want
to lose money doing this and we always
made money doing onboarding to be clear.
It's just that at a certain point that
the mass market, whether it for us it's
enterprise or all of the proumers in the
world, you hit a top of funnel width. It
needs to be wide enough where manually
onboarding no longer makes sense.
Awesome. Okay, let's talk about product
market fit. I know that everyone when
they think of Rahul, they think product
market fit. You wrote this epic first
round post that described the way you
guys approach product market fit. We're
not gonna spend a lot of time on
describing it because people can look it
up. So, let me just ask you this. Just
what are I don't know a couple things
that you think people still don't
understand about finding product market
fit, getting to product market fit. Uh
considering it's the most important
thing you got to figure out as a
founder, right? If you don't find
something people want, nothing else
matters. Uh, anything there you want to
share? The core ideas are still weird
enough that I'll start there, which is
number one, you can measure product
market fit. Number two, you can optimize
product market fit. Number three, you
can systematically even numerically
increase product market fit. And number
four, you can even have an algorithm
write your road map for you. And that is
a road map that is guaranteed to
increase product market fit. Now, if
that sounds crazy, I would be the first
to admit it's doesn't seem like that
should be true, but go check out that
post. I think it is still the most
widely shared post on first round
review. It's called I think how
superhuman built an engine to find
products market fit. or just Google the
superhuman product market fit engine and
you'll see the algorithm laid out there
fully explained and why it works. And
I'd say the second thing is to get to
products market fit, you have to
deliberately not act on the feedback of
many of your early
users. And this is at the same time as
listening to people intensely and
building what people want, right? That's
what we're here to do is to make
something that people want. But it can't
be all people. It can't be everybody.
And the question becomes how do you
listen to them? And then even of what
they say, what do you pay attention to
and what don't you? All of that's
covered in the product market fit
engine. Okay. I got to follow this
thought on uh algorithmically building a
road map to increase product markets
today. Talk about just what that how how
one would do that. Well, I mean, that's
that's really the the the meat of the
engine. So, let's see if I can condense
it here in in a very easy to gro
fashion. So, let's assume for the sake
of argument that you can put a number on
product market fit. And it turns out you
can. Very simply, you're going to ask
people, "How would you feel if you could
no longer use this product?" You give
them three responses. One of them is
very disappointed. The other is somewhat
disappointed. And the other is not
disappointed. very disappointed means I
I would be like devastated. I love this
product or I need this product. And what
Sean Ellis found Sean Ellis if you don't
know him is the guy who coined the term
growth hacker and he instrumented
benchmarked this initial question. What
he found is that the companies that
struggled to grow almost always had less
than 40% very disappointed. Whereas the
companies that grew the fastest almost
always had more than 40% very
disappointed. And this question, this
metric is way more predictive of success
than something for example like net
promoter score. Okay, so far so easy.
How do we make this number go up? Well,
you want more people to be very
disappointed without your product. And
the trick here
is not to act too much on the feedback
that the very disappointed people are
giving you because they already love
your product. Also, not to act at all
really on the feedback that the not
disappointed people are giving you
because they're so far from loving your
product that they are essentially a lost
cause. but to focus on the segment of
the somewhat disappointed people. They
kind of love your product, but something
and I would wager something small is
holding them back. So, you then divide
them into two camps. The camp for whom
the main benefit of your product
resonates and the camp for whom it
doesn't. And what do I mean by that?
Well, you go back to the people who
really love your product and you
basically ask them why. What is it about
my product that you really love? In the
early days of superhuman, it would have
been speed and keyboard shortcuts and
the the overall design aesthetic as well
as the time that we were saving
you. You then go back to the somewhat
disappointed users. And in the
superhuman example, I would simply ask,
wait, do you like superhuman because of
its speed or for something else? And if
it's something else, well, and this is
hard to do, but politely disregard those
people and their feedback because even
if you built everything that they asked
for, they're still pulling you in a
different direction. And the thing that
they like the most from your product
isn't actually what the people who on
mass love it the most for
is. So you have then articulated the
subsegment of the subsegment that it
makes sense to pay attention to. And
there's another question in the engine
to figure out what they don't like about
the product. Now you have a list of
things people love. You have a list of
things people don't love. And you can
work down that list to make the product
market fit score go up. And basically at
the start of every planning cycle, I
advise spending half your time doubling
down on what people really love and half
your time systematically overcoming the
objections of the somewhat disappointed
users, but specifically those for whom
the main benefit resonates. That was an
excellent summary. Uh I know I said we
wouldn't spend a ton of time here, but
I'm really glad we did. That was really
helpful. Let me ask you this. I know you
used this initially in the early days.
Are you still operating in this way in
some form? We don't run the engine as is
for superhuman as a whole. There are
enough subcomponents of superhuman now
that are almost individual products. For
example, superhuman for sales, our
multiplayer and collaboration features,
how we think about the enterprise, AI is
its whole thing. Uh, but we do sometimes
run it on those individual pieces. For
example, we'll ask a salesperson the
product market fit engine as it relates
to superhuman for sales. And as we think
about starting new products, we would
absolutely deploy the product market fit
engine. Awesome. And the way you asked
this question is an inproduct
interstitial sort of survey pop-up
thing. You can do it however you want.
The way Sean initially benchmarked the
number was via email surveys. I think
email surveys work just fine. The key
thing is, and this applies to any survey
methodology, if you're going to change
the method of surveying, all of your old
numbers are invalidated. So, it's just a
new baseline going forwards. Got it. And
we had Sean on the podcast and he
describes this method in detail. So,
folks want to explore this Sean Ellis
test, listen to that podcast. We'll link
to it. Okay. Next topic that uh I'm
excited to get your take on is is game
design versus gamification. This is some
one of the more unique ways you think
about designing product. And when people
hear you talk about this, they think
it's like, oh, gamification, making
things like games. Oh, Zingga,
Farmville, I don't want to do that. But
you actually have a really different
perspective on how to make why you need
to think about game design as you design
products. Talk about your insights
there. Yeah. Well, I strongly believe
that we should make business software
like we make games because when we make
products like we make games, people find
them fun. They tell their friends. They
fall in love with them. It's another way
actually of backing into where we opened
this conversation, which is you're
making a brand. You're giving reason for
word of mouth. It's actually an
allgether different kind of product
development. So, how do we do this?
Well, as you said, it's not
gamification. That doesn't work. Game
design works, but game design is not
gamification. It's not, for example,
simply taking your product and adding
points, levels, trophies, or badges. And
to understand why gamification does not
work, we actually have to start with
human motivation. And there's a very
interesting study from Stanford, I
think, that demonstrates the difference
perfectly. In the 1970s, these Stanford
researchers recruited children who were
aged 3 to four years old. And all of
these kids were generally pre-interested
in drawing. Some kids were told they
would get a reward, a certificate with a
gold seal and a ribbon. And some kids
were not told about any reward, and they
did not even expect one or didn't know
of one. Now, each child was then invited
into a separate room to draw for 6
minutes, and afterwards, they would
either get the reward or not. And over
the next few days, the children were
observed to see how much they would
continue to draw by themselves. So the
children with no reward, they spent 17%
of their time drawing. But the children
who expected a reward, sadly, they only
spent 8% of their time drawing. The very
presence of a reward have their
motivation. So what's happening? What's
happening here is researchers
differentiate intrinsic motivation and
exttrinsic motivation. With intrinsic
motivation, we do things because they
are inherently interesting and
satisfying. And with exttrinsic
motivation, we do things to earn rewards
and to achieve external goals. And
that's the problem with rewards is they
just massively undermine intrinsic
motivation. And that's why gamification
doesn't work. And when gamification does
work, it's because the underlying
experience was already designed like a
game. What makes something uh I guess
like a game? I know Superhum is really
good at this of just like your inbox
zero uh quest that you're on. I guess
just to make that a little more real,
what is game design? What does that mean
to you? Like what makes it feel like a
game? Well, maybe folks don't know this,
but before I was a founder, you can
probably tell I was actually a
professionally a game designer. And as
it turns out, there is no unifying
theory of game design. To create games,
what we need to do is draw upon the art
and the science of psychology,
mathematics, storytelling, interaction
design. And at Superhum, we've
identified five key areas that we really
care about. Goals, emotions, toys,
controls, and flow. And across these,
we've identified many principles of game
design. And one example principle would
be make fun toys and then combine those
into games. So a question I like to ask
is are toys the same as games? They do
seem different. For example, we play
with toys but we play games. A ball is a
toy but football is a game. And as it
turns out the best games are constructed
out of toys. Why? Because then they are
fun on both levels. the toy and the game
itself. So, for example, in
Superhum, one of our favorite toys is
the time autocompleter. If you use
Superhum, this is the thing that appears
when you hit H when you snooze or set
reminders on emails. You can type
whatever you want. It can be gibberish
and it does its best to understand you.
For example, if you type in 2D, that
becomes 2 days. 3 H is 3 hours. 1 M O is
1 month. And the time or to complete it
is fun because it indulges your playful
exploration. In onboardings, it wasn't
long before I saw people asking, "What
can it do? Where does it break? How does
it work? What happens if I keep on
typing in a series of 10?" Well, it
turns out that's October the 10th at
10:10 p.m. Well, how about the series of
twos? That's February the 2nd, 2022 at 2
p.m. And then you start trying more
complex inputs like in a Fortnite and a
day and that works, which is a pleasant
surprise. And it's not long before you
find more pleasant surprises, like time
zone math happens without you thinking
about it, you can just type in 8 a.m. in
Tokyo, and it turns out that's 8:00 p.m.
Eastern time, and you no longer have to
do the time zone math. And then most
people were really delighted to find out
that if you really want, you can snooze
emails until never. I.e. you can
literally type in never and the email
will never come back. And it had like a
little shrug emoji um at the same time.
So you know, is it is this toy going to
win awards? Nope. Uh but is it fun?
Actually, surprisingly, yes. So what I
would encourage people to do is think
about the features of their product. Do
those features indulge playful
exploration? Are they fun even without a
goal? And do they elicit moments of
pleasant surprise? If so, you have a toy
and you can combine that with other toys
and actually start to build a game. If
people were to listen to this segment of
the podcast, I they would never guess
we're talking about B2B software and
email, which I love. Let's talk about
pricing strategy and your approach to
pricing. uh another very contrarian
approach that you guys took where you
charge $30 a month for email that was
free that people don't need to pay for
anywhere and it's worked and now a lot
of companies are thinking of it this
way. You've even raised your prices
recently. What have you learned about
pricing strategy that you think might be
helpful to folks? I always say the same
thing when it comes to pricing, which is
before you figure out pricing, you must
first figure out positioning. And
Superhum is the best email tool on the
market. We fortunately have the metrics
to show this. One of the cool things
about selling an email tool is you can
compare the 30 days prior to using
Superhuman to the 30 days after or the
year before to the year after. And we do
that obviously. We're able to show that
people get through their email twice as
fast with superhuman, that they respond
one to two days faster and that they
save four hours or more every single
week. Because of that, we're very
confident in saying that Superhum is the
best email tool on the market and that
we're building it for high performing
teams and high performing individuals.
In other words, we serve the high end of
the market. Once you understand your
positioning, you can then move on to
pricing. And one of the best books on
this is a book called monetizing
innovation by Madavan Roman. And Madavan
covers a lot of ways to develop pricing.
We used one of the easiest methods which
is the van westerndorp price sensitivity
meter. And in the early years we asked I
think it was around 100 of our earliest
users the following four questions.
Number one, at what price would you
consider superhuman to be so expensive
that you would not consider buying it?
Number two, at what price would you
consider Superhum to be priced so low
that you'd be worried about its quality
and you wouldn't buy it? At number
three, what price would you consider
Superhum to be starting to get expensive
so that it's not out of the question,
but you'd have to give some thought to
buying it? And number four, at what
price would you consider Superum to be a
bargain? A great buy for the money. Now,
most startups orient around price point
number four. Uh this is especially true
for green field opportunities
marketplaces. You got to set the
transaction value around price point for
basically when you want as many people
to sign up as is humanly possible at the
top of the funnel. But the price point
that supports our best-in-class best-in-
position is actually the third one. it
starts to feel expensive, but then you
sit down and you think about the time
that you spend in email, the ROI, and
you still buy it anyway. And it turns
out that the median answer for the third
question was $30 per month. And that's
how we picked our price. And once we
picked our price, we then do a quick gut
check on market size. You know, for
example, we're a venture scale company,
but at the time, the question that we
had to ask is, could we grow into a
billion dollar valuation? Well, let's
assume that at that point our valuation
is 10 times our ARR. So, our ARR would
have to be $100 million. Well, that
would be 300,000 subscribers at $30 per
month. And that is conservatively
assuming no other ways to increase uh
ARP. You mentioned price increase. You
can also go at market. You can sell new
products and so on. But we asked
ourselves without those tricks, do we
think we can get to hundreds of
thousands of subscribers? and we
answered emphatically yes and so we went
ahead with that press. Okay. There's a
couple more things I want to chat about
in the time that we have and then I know
you have to run. One is around AI and
the work you guys are doing there. I
know that's been a big unlock and then
two the stuff you're doing in the
enterprise and then if we have time
there's a question I want to ask that I
think is a really interesting way you
guys operate. So let's talk about AI
first. It feels like like there's this
like uh being in the right place at the
right time. feels like you guys like
we've been building this for a while and
then AI just unlocked another stage in
what you're able to do with email. I
guess just talk about what you've done
and what how you think about AI
integrating into what you're doing, how
it's enabled you to kind of take off
again. It's true that sometimes startups
boil down to being in the right place at
the right time and we we actually had a
massive AI launch recently about two
weeks ago. But even before then we had
multiple flagship AI features. Our first
AI feature was write with AI. Jot down a
few words and we'll turn them into a
fully written email. We actually match
the voice and tone in the emails you've
already sent. So unlike Copilot, unlike
Gemini, unlike basically every other
email app, the email sounds like you.
And this AI feature is way more popular
than I expected it to be. On average
today, users are using it 37 times per
week. Number two, our next AI feature
was auto summarize, which shows a
oneline summary above every conversation
and as new emails arrive, it updates
instantly. Again, unlike Copilot and
Gemini, it's preomputed. One of the
things we do is we go above and beyond
to make these features really premium
and feel amazing. The next AI feature
after that was instant reply. Imagine
waking up to an inbox where every email
already has a draft reply. You would
simply edit and then send. And sometimes
you wouldn't even need to edit. And I
can share because we just finished this
analysis that over 2024, the percentage
of emails that are AI written and sent
with superhuman has grown four times
just in one year.
And then if I remember correctly, the
feature after that was ask AI. Email of
course is this treasure trove of
critical information. Things like
project statuses, customer
communication, meeting updates, deal
execution, and so much more. And for
over 40 years, we've had to rely on what
we hilariously call search. You have to
remember senders, guess keywords, scan
subject lines, and now you can just ask
where is the Q1 offsite or what are my
flight details?
or uh what is the top five most positive
customer responses to the Ask AI launch.
A task by the way which previously used
to take me 20 or 30 minutes to read
through all the emails and then create
that report now happening in less than 5
seconds. And recently we like I said
announced our biggest evolution yet. And
superhuman AI is constantly helping you.
It's organizing your inbox. It's also
making sure you never drop the ball. So,
we have things that we call auto labels.
You can now write a short prompt like
job applications or requests to review
work. And you can then immediately see
when emails match that prompt when
people apply for a job or they ask you
to review work. With auto reminders, if
your email needs a response, Superhuman
will now automatically set a reminder.
You don't have to remember to do that.
Then you'll never drop the ball again.
All you need to do is hit send. With
autodrafts, Superhuman will now
automatically draft your follow-up
emails for you and will soon be drafting
replies to basically every email that
needs a response. And finally, with what
we call workflows, you can now turn
email into repeatable automated
workflows. For example, I often get
emails from people who are interested in
working at Superhuman and I would
normally reply to that candidate and I
would let them know that the team will
take a look. I'll then forward the
original message including any resume or
any letter to our head of people and
operations and ask her to reach out if
interested. With workflows, I can now
automate this entire process. And it's,
you can imagine sort of creating a
little flowchart of what has to happen.
Not only does that save a huge amount of
time with workflows, you don't even have
to be in your inbox. In fact, you don't
even have to be working, you could be on
vacation while superhuman AI is working
for you. This sounds like product market
fit to me. This all sounds wonderful.
Like it just makes sense. This is the
stuff we've been promised our underwater
cities and flying cars and then just
email that just works magically and
replies for us and all these things. Uh,
so I love all these things you're doing.
For folks that are uh building with AI,
I'm curious to just what's maybe been
the biggest surprise either good or bad
building so deeply on top of AI models
that you think might be helpful for
folks to just like watch out for this or
hey check this out. I think for me the
biggest surprise has been how
unpredictable the user love has been in
terms of what they love and what they
don't love. For example, write with
AI. This sounds like a commodity feature
and on a surface level it is. Every
email app, every writing surface has a
right with AI feature in. I would wager
ours is the best at emails and
surprisingly that's what we do.
But the surprising thing was just how
much people love it and how often it
gets used. 37 times per user per week is
still mind-blowing to
me. I had not expected that. So that
that's the most surprising thing. And on
the flip side, there were certain AI
features where I did expect a ton of
usage, but we didn't quite get the usage
that we were perhaps hoping for. And
hopefully I'm I'm not AI Kramer, but
basically everything I thought would
work out well, people use it less than I
thought they did. And everything where I
was like, I don't know, but let's build
the thing. People love that. So
interesting. Maybe I should just create
an anti-me to do AI road mapping. That's
a simple agent right there. Whatever
says, do the opposite. Yeah. Okay.
Another maybe a last topic. I know that
you guys are starting to move into the
enterprise. When people think of
superhuman, they think of just, you
know, it's like consumey. It's like for
people and you guys are doing a lot of
work to make it a B2B enterprise product
for founders maybe that are starting to
think about this transitioning from PLG
to salesled and B2B enterprise. What
what have you learned about just what it
takes to get to that point and just what
does that sales motion look like for you
guys? In some ways it's very like
selling to proumers except these users
are not coming from Gmail where proumers
would normally come from. coming from
Outlook and Outlook users have very
different expectations to Gmail users.
For example, Outlook users expect their
email app to also be a fully featured
calendar app whereas Gmail users are
happy with those two things being
entirely different. So, as a result,
we've invested in calendar very heavily
and and we continue to do so. And
there's there's only so much I can say
that, but it's pretty exciting. Outlook
users. Yeah, Outlook users are also used
to certain safeguards like if you've
used Outlook in an enterprise, warnings
when a recipient is external to your
domain or what Outlook users might know
as sensitivity labels. And as a result,
we've built support for external
recipient indicators and sensitivity
labels. But in some ways, it's very
different to selling to proumers because
there are other stakeholders involved.
For example, we've built support for
enterprise mobile management by
implementing Microsoft Intune. We
recently sold one of the big three
strategy consulting firms which is super
exciting. I can't say which one uh but
they love superhum and they have
thousands of people internally using
superhum but we and this is after a year
um they've been yeah piloting for a year
and then accelerating over the last few
months. We only just got them the mobile
app, believe it or not,
because at an enterprise like that,
there are significant controls on what a
allowed compliant mobile app can and
cannot do. For example, it needs to be
able to control which apps can save
attachments or which apps you can copy
and paste text into from email. And for
many enterprises, those controls are
super important. Wow. Okay. So, it
sounds like essentially just building
all these features that uh large
companies need is kind of the road
you're on right now. Exactly. And
there's two stakeholders. There's the
users which are actually quite different
because they're Outlook users and
calendar is one of the main ways that
manifests. And then there's a whole
bunch of other stakeholders. It is one
of them, but there are others as well.
Uh, for example, companies this large
have workplace management groups who
want to see analytics of how people are
working, how they can make their teams
more efficient. And so it truly is a a
multi-threaded sale with multiple
stakeholders. We had a linear on the the
head of product from linear on the
podcast, Naan, and he actually I don't
know if you heard that episode, but he
talks about how the how they decide what
to prioritize. The thing they never
build is middle managers needing to
track how their reports are doing and
things like that. So that's an
interesting opportunity for you guys
maybe to cut stuff. I don't know.
Anyway, I want to end on one more
nugget. Okay. I'm glad we have time for
this. So you share that you have this
system internally of superhuman for
making decisions. You call it single
decisive reason. Uh SDR, what is
that? SDR is a thinking tool that I
picked up from Reed Hoffman during my
time at LinkedIn. And the idea here is
that for important decisions, you should
be able to identify one one reason that
on its own supports the decision. And
it's based on the observation that all
too often we rely on a collection of
weak reasons to justify decisions. And
it's very very easy to do this. Imagine
you're contemplating a decision. You
write a list of the pros and the cons.
There are three pros, but let's say
there are 10 or 15 cons. the sheer
number of cons, the effort of thinking
them through, the time it took to write
them down is going to affect you
consciously or worse subconsciously. And
this is especially true I've seen in
group settings which just in general are
a little bit more risk averse um and a
little bit more consensus driven. So
whenever anyone is making a decision and
they bring that decision to me and they
say well we want to do this because of
XYZ and there are multiple reasons I ask
them what's the SDR what's the single
decisive reason if they can't yet
isolate it that tells me they haven't
yet figured out why they want to make
the decision it doesn't mean the
decision is wrong it just means that
they haven't figured out the singular
reason why we should do the thing they
can then go through their list
reasons and ask is this alone enough to
support this decision meaning if this
was true and all the other things were
not true would I still do it and
sometimes we still do but actually
sometimes we don't and we realize that a
collection of weak reasons alone means
that for example the outcome is less
likely than we thought it was or it was
hiding a really strong reason on the
other side of the decision. That is very
cool. So this is just when you're when
someone comes to you with a decision,
the way you use this idea is you ask
them what's the single decisive reason
pretty much. Yeah. And what they can't
do, I mean obviously this happens.
People are human and natural. They'll
usually start mentioning three or four
things and and that's fine. And then I
will say, okay, but if only one of those
was true and you're still advocating for
this decision, what is it? And I think
that's that's just a bar for a good
decision. Why is that so important?
because uh you found that just like a
bunch of lowquality reasons just don't
add up to a good reason to do something.
Multiple reasons, which is ironic. Um
but that's that's my SDR for why SDRs
work, which is yes, multiple lowquality
reasons rarely add up to a
uh a high quality reason to do
something. But there are also other
things as well, which is any decision
you take has an opportunity cost. any
feature you build is another feature
that you didn't build. And if we're
going to build this for a collection of
weak reasons, whereas we could build
that for one strong reason, I'd much
rather build that for one strong reason.
Now, this is all other things being
equal, and these things often end up
being quite complicated, but you can
apply SDR all the way down. I mean, you
just did that to me. What's my SDR SDR?
There we go. Rul, is there anything that
we haven't covered that you wanted to
cover? Is there any last piece of wisdom
you want to leave listeners with before
we let you go? I feel good. So, I I
think we covered a lot. Thank you for
asking amazing questions. This is really
fun. This was incredible. Okay, so let
me just ask you this then. Where can
folks find you online? Where can they
check out Superhuman? What should they
know before they try it out? And then
just how can listeners be useful to you?
If you want to find me online, I'm
generally on X. That is
X.com/raulvora
rhulv hr a. And my DMs are open. So feel
free to ping me. If you want to do that,
I would suggest also emailing me. That's
rauls
superhum.com. Uh and hopefully I'll see
your message soon. If you haven't tried
superhum, then gosh, what are you doing?
This is my call to you to do so because
your time is worth more than whatever
you think it might be. So go download
Superhum. Give it a shot. Invite your
team. Uh the metrics are real. I know
they sound like the the kind of metrics
that startups make up, but getting
through your email twice as fast,
responding one to two days sooner,
saving 4 hours or more every single
week. They're all real. Actually,
speaking of which, the consulting firm I
mentioned earlier, because they're so
into data and into analysis, they wanted
to corroborate those numbers for
themselves. And so, they did. They ran
their own internal case study on
Superhum. And they were like, "Yeah,
you're saving our partners 3.3 hours per
person per week." And there's only one
other tool that we've bought that does
that, which is chat GPT. So, thank you.
We love Superhum. We're rolling it out.
If that sounds interesting to you or
your company, uh please do give it a
shot. That is super cool. Uh reflecting
back on what I imagined this
conversation would look like, a lot of
contrarian thinking and attention to
detail. I think that's exactly what it
was. You're awesome. Thank you so much
for being here. Thank you. Bye everyone.
Bye
everyone. Thank you so much for
listening. If you found this valuable,
you can subscribe to the show on Apple
Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite
podcast app. Also, please consider
giving us a rating or leaving a review
as that really helps other listeners
find the podcast. You can find all past
episodes or learn more about the show at
lennispodcast.com. See you in the next
episode.